[Music]
you know most people don't really
appreciate how simple it is today to
stay in contact with their loved ones
all you have to do is take your
smartphone and choose one of the
numerous messaging apps but how did
people keep in touch before smartphones
with face IDs and multi megapixel
cameras appear around 30,000 years ago
closer to the end of the Stone Age I
wasn't around then people lived in caves
and knew nothing about iPhones but they
knew how to draw on the walls they
created a system of symbols and left
these rock paintings in caves to
communicate with each other it looked
like some kind of ancient MMS the
paintings contain tons of useful
information for example the first
calendar or bits and pieces of history
smoke signals were a cool way of
long-distance communication in Greece
they develop a system of alphabetical
smoke signals around 150 BCE all Greek
letters were turned into numeric
characters and messages SMS rather than
MMS were easily sent by two people
holding torches let's not forget about
runners Greeks and Romans had some of
their provinces so far apart that no
smoke signal could be seen from such
distances that's why specially trained
and lightning-fast people ran from place
to place to deliver messages those were
super important letters like military
orders or laws that had to be put into
action immediately if we continue with
the comparisons they were something like
emails pigeons were also great at
delivering messages the pigeon post
itself appeared in ancient times but
some enthusiasts keep using it these
days as well although more for fun than
out of real necessity the whole thing is
based on the pigeons natural ability to
find their way back home keep in mind
though that you just can't tie your
message to any pigeon you spot in the
street it has to be a specially bred
homing pigeon that knows how to navigate
over long distances in some areas people
communicated with the help of drums
these drums were so powerful that their
sound could be
in villages miles away there was a
special set of drum signals used to
indicate important things and it worked
not unlike Morse code this method of
communication was invented by Samuel
Morse at the beginning of the 19th
century all the letters of the alphabet
were encrypted as sets of dots and
dashes most people think that Morse code
is an acoustic system of communication
but it can be visual as well because you
can share it as flashes of light but
let's skip some time okay it's a lot of
time and land in the middle of the 20th
century by that time several decades had
already passed since people started
using radio for communication it was
time for something new and revolutionary
I know right now you imagine the latest
product of your favorite smartphone
manufacturer not so fast
people could barely hold the first cell
phones in their hands the whole process
of calling someone was heavy and I mean
it literally uncomfortable and terribly
clumsy the ancestor of the modern-day
cellphone appeared in Sweden in 1960 it
was a far cry from your super slim
smartphone the device was incredibly
bulky and heavy it was actually not a
one piece phone but a system known as
mobile telephone system aim the thing
was fully automated meaning that it
could be moved from one place to another
but for relocating it you needed a car
because the handset was supposed to be
mounted inside also this mobile device
needed an operator to forward the calls
so you probably agree that a massive
metal box accompanying you wherever you
went somewhere by car who wasn't a
perfect example of wireless
communication the very first real cell
phone call was made in 1973
that's when Martin Cooper Motorola's
senior engineer called the rival company
and told him he was talking on a cell
phone
he didn't mention though that the device
he used weighed two pounds had an
antenna was about nine inches long and
four inches wide and had a loving
nickname
BRIC you could enjoy a 30 minutes long
phone call and then had to charge the
device for another 10 hours the next
model was released only 10 years later
in 1983 it was the first commercial cell
phone if a customer was ready to pay
almost 4000 bucks they could get a phone
with half an hour of talktime and 6
hours of standby the device could also
store up to 30 phone numbers
whew unfortunately even at such an
exorbitant price the phone's performance
wasn't great as you see in the early
days of cell phones manufacturers had in
mind businesspeople types who drove fast
cars and flew airplanes rather than the
average Joe that's one of the reasons
why the first cell phones were mostly
for use in cars they just didn't fit
into jeans pockets anyway it was 1989
and the very first portable cell phone
motorola micro TAC 9800 ex appeared on
the market and yes by saying portable I
do mean it could fit into a shirt pocket
if it was big enough the device was
black plastic and had a flip piece even
though the phone was proudly called
micro it was still more than 9 inches in
length and weighed more than 12 ounces
which is as heavy as a can of soup
probably too heavy for a shirt pocket a
super important breakthrough happened in
1992 the first-ever text message was
said in red happy Christmas the year was
1984 and the first smart phone saw the
light of day wait when I say smart phone
it's not the same thing you have in mind
the phone which was called IBM Simon
Personal Communicator
was more like a planner than a cell
phone those who spent $900 to buy this
gadget who create their contact and task
lists and make calls
that's all Simon could handle plus its
battery lasted for only an hour still
customers bought more than 50,000 units
step-by-step cell phones started to
become slimmer and acquired new
functions they were also getting more
affordable
plus in 1995 people saw the first splash
of color Siemens s10 offered its users
the whole of four colors after that the
smartphone development process started
to gain speed the end of the 90s and the
luckiest phone users could marvel at the
internet and email on their devices in
1997 the iconic snake was launched on
Nokia 6110 this event became the start
of mobile gaming by the way if you've
ever lost track of time playing the
snake let me know in the comments below
let's see how many we are in November
2000 the era of selfie obsession
officially started or maybe it started
sometime later because when the world's
first cellphone with a completely
integrated camera appeared people knew
nothing about selfies yet the device was
called jsh o 4 and was launched by the
sharp company the phone had a 110,000
pixel built-in camera and a 256 color
display it's weight was less than three
ounces just a bit more than a tennis
ball and it was five inches long way
lighter and almost twice smaller than
the first cell phones the phone was
available only in Japan the Western
world got interested in camera phones
only two years later by 2007 for
smartphones with touch screens appeared
on the market by 2011 these gadgets had
already become a crucial part of our
lives
4G voice recognition health and fitness
apps and tons of other cool features
made smart phones irreplaceable for most
people but modern gadgets are
mind-blowing ly different from the very
first cell phones the slimmest
smartphones today are less than
one-fifth of an inch thick
their displays are no thicker than a
strand of spaghetti even though they're
so skinny these gadgets are packed with
useful and entertaining apps smart
phones also have become much lighter the
lightest device is weigh about three
ounces it's less than a deck of cards
their size has decreased quite
dramatically as well these days you can
fit the smallest smartphones in any
pocket you choose because they're no
bigger than four
1/2 inches at the same time not everyone
wants to have their smartphone as small
as possible the larger its display is
the more convenient it is to watch
videos and play games that's white lots
of gadgets have large sized screens
being pretty light at the same time the
biggest phone displays reach 8 inches in
length which makes them almost as long
as the first cell phones hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share with a friend and
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life